---
layout: post 
title: BQ Answer
date: 2022-10-02
author: Shadow Song
tags: [Sorting, 上课记录]
toc: true
comments: true
---

### Briefly introduce yourself

Hi I'm Dingjia Chen. I am looking for an internship in software development.

I graduated from Zhejiang Univ. and am currently studying at UIUC pursuing a MS degree. I will graduated in Dec.2023.

- I have knowledge in data structure, system programming, database systems, distributed systems and web programming

- experience in C/C++, Python, using Django and Bootstrap
- hands-on programming projects in small teams

I saw this job position from ... and know that your company was steadily expanded.

Hope to donate my enthusiasm and energy to [company name]

### 建议

-  一段说明自己现在的情况. 
-  两段 说一下 做过的 实习/ 项目, 其中加一些技术. 



### Why the company?

- culture: teamwork, ...
- challenge
- work life balance

### 建议

- Have a lot of experienced engineers. want to learn from them. thrive. 
- Large company. Have great impact. Want to contribute. 
- Diversity. 




### Understanding towards the position and why this position?



### How to handle multi-task situation?

- make a plan and stick to it
- If I find something that I cannot finish whatever, tell the team leader as early as possible.



Q: 引用 LP 是转述还是copy



### What is the typical approach when you face something that you’ve never learned before, how will you get start?

- tech: ~~google~~ , stack overflow, ~~geekforgeek~~, official document, some personal blog
- If I cannot find the solution, I will ask my coworkers or mentor for help

### When you are not able to solve a problem, how will you ask for help and what is your strategy?

- (same?)





### We all make mistakes we wish we could take back. If give you another chance what action you would take.

- Bias for Action?



### Tell me a conflict with colleague or manager how did you solve it.

- Situation: My manager want to develop a complex framework, while I would like to **invent a simpler one**. 
- Task: **Have Backbone**. convince my teammates to vote for my simpler solution
- Action: 
  - I draw the framework on paper to show how every part works, connect and communication.
  - **Insist on the Highest Standards**.
- Result: my solution was accepted and proved to work well. We focused on this path and finished the task with less time and higher quality than expectation.





### Biggest challenge you’ve solved. One about Tech, One about HR.

### Tell me about your internship or some academic project you are most proud of.

(Q: need STAR?)

- Situation: This is not the most challenging one but the most meaningful one because it is my first project <u>start from zero with no pre-providing code</u> from TA or professor.
- Task: I am asked to write a program that works like a Linux shell.
- Action: 
  - **Learn and Be Curious** I check how the shell works, how function works.
  - Build the framework then write specific functions. Check the man page, ask TAs
  - **Dive deep**, test edge cases and logic operations
- Result: works well and pass all the tests.



### short-term goal, long-term goal

- intern, full-time, be a mentor, ~~team leader~~ 
	- want to learn more about software development, would like to learn more from senior software engineers. 
	- Big impact. make contribution to important projects. 
- team leader, try to be a manager, leave something for my team like docs, tutorials



### Could you tell me something that is not on your resume?

- I was in the women swimming team and train six times a week to **Insist on the Highest Standards**.
- My coach asked me to attend butterfly stroke instead of my favorite backstroke. I am confused and disappointed but I keep practicing three kilometers a day and finally got a bronze medal in the city's competition. (Are right, A Lot? Bias for action?)
- I feel lucky that I keep practicing swimming. It becomes my hobby and keeps me fit (think big)



### What do you love most about software engineering?

- Coding is clear and not ambiguous
- you can find resources and comprehensive tutorials on websites
- need teamwork and it's amazing to work together in a team
- it is full of challenges
- your effort is values



### Describe an aspect or experience you don’t like about software engineering?

= =

- When I get a heritage from the former team which has neither docs nor annotation. 

- when something works but I cannot figure out why.

### 参考

- It’s very hard for your work to be valued. Non-developers and even developers cannot really fathom the effort of your work. If someone builds a canoe and a second person builds a cruise ship, the difference is very tangible.
In software, not so much. You can take a 10 day effort, and with your genius, get it done in 1 day. But since you got it done in one day, the users will simply think its a 1-day thing. Not only it is hard for non-technical personnel to understand the work, it is also not easy for engineers who work on different projects to understand the work you have done. 






### Reverse behavior question (Questions you ask interviewer)

- What is your code language
- What is day to day life
- How to onboarding new team member